Component Distributors Inc. (CDI)
  Toll-Free: 1-800-777-7334     E-Mail: sales@cdiweb.com
                      Web: www.cdiweb.com/PortalMain.aspx?pid=704
Distributing Tomorrow’s Technologies For Today’s Designs
Toll-Free: 1-800-777-7334
Since 1970
http://www.cdiweb.com/PortalMain.aspx?pid=704
 
MPU-6000/MPU-6050 Product Specification 
Document Number: PS-MPU-6000A-00
Revision: 3.2 
Release Date: 11/16/2011 
 
           30 of 57 
7.15 Internal Clock Generation 
The MPU-60X0 has a flexible clocking scheme, allowing a variety of internal or external clock sources to be 
used for the internal synchronous circuitry.  This synchronous circuitry includes the signal conditioning and 
ADCs, the DMP, and various control circuits and registers.  An on-chip PLL provides flexibility in the 
allowable inputs for generating this clock. 
Allowable internal sources for generating the internal clock are: 
 
An internal relaxation oscillator 
 
Any of the X, Y, or Z gyros (MEMS oscillators with a variation of ±1% over temperature) 
 
Allowable external clocking sources are:  
 
32.768kHz square wave  
 
19.2MHz square wave 
Selection of the source for generating the internal synchronous clock depends on the availability of external 
sources and the requirements for power consumption and clock accuracy.  These requirements will most 
likely vary by mode of operation. For example, in one mode, where the biggest concern is power 
consumption, the user may wish to operate the Digital Motion Processor of the MPU-60X0 to process 
accelerometer data, while keeping the gyros off.  In this case, the internal relaxation oscillator is a good clock 
choice.  However, in another mode, where the gyros are active, selecting the gyros as the clock source 
provides for a more accurate clock source. 
Clock accuracy is important, since timing errors directly affect the distance and angle calculations performed 
by the Digital Motion Processor (and by extension, by any processor).   
There are also start-up conditions to consider. When the MPU-60X0 first starts up, the device uses its 
internal clock until programmed to operate from another source.  This allows the user, for example, to wait 
for the MEMS oscillators to stabilize before they are selected as the clock source. 
 
7.16 Sensor Data Registers  
The sensor data registers contain the latest gyro, accelerometer, auxiliary sensor, and temperature 
measurement data.  They are read-only registers, and are accessed via the serial interface.  Data from these 
registers may be read anytime. However, the interrupt function may be used to determine when new data is 
available. 
For a table of interrupt sources please refer to Section 8. 
 
7.17 FIFO 
The MPU-60X0 contains a 1024-byte FIFO register that is accessible via the Serial Interface. The FIFO 
configuration register determines which data is written into the FIFO. Possible choices include gyro data, 
accelerometer data, temperature readings, auxiliary sensor readings, and FSYNC input.  A FIFO counter 
keeps track of how many bytes of valid data are contained in the FIFO. The FIFO register supports burst 
reads.  The interrupt function may be used to determine when new data is available. 
For further information regarding the FIFO, please refer to the MPU-60X0 Register Map and Register 
Descriptions document. 
 
 
