Power control (PWR) RM0456
410/3653 RM0456 Rev 6
3. Wait for 8 µs.
4. Increase the system frequency to the required frequency.
10.5.3 LDO and SMPS step dow n converter fast startup
After BOR reset, the LDO and SMPS regulators starts in slow-startup mode. This -startup 
feature is selected to limit the inrush current after power-on reset. This increases 
the wake-up time when exiting Stop or Standby mode.
However, it is possible to configure a faster startup on-the-fly, and it is applied for next 
startup either after a system reset or after a wake-up from low-power mode except 
Shutdown and V
BAT modes. The fast startup is selected by setting FSTEN in PWR_CR3.
10.5.4 Dynamic voltag e scaling management
The dynamic voltage scaling is a power management technique that consists in increasing 
or decreasing the voltage used for the digital peripherals (VCORE), according to 
the application performance and power consumption needs.
Dynamic voltage scaling to increase VCORE is known as overvolting. It allows the device 
to improve its performance. 
Dynamic voltage scaling to decrease VCORE is known as undervolting. It is performed to 
save power, particularly in laptop and other mobile devices where the energy comes from a 
battery and is thus limited.
The regulator operates in the following ranges:
• Range 1: high performance
It provides a typical output voltage at 1.2 V. It is used when the system clock frequency 
is up to 160 MHz. 
• Range 2: medium-high performance
It provides a typical output voltage at 1.1 V. It is used when the system clock frequency 
is up to 110 MHz. 
• Range 3: medium-low power range
It provides a typical output voltage at 1.0 V. The system clock frequency can be up to 
55 MHz.
• Range 4: low-power range
It provides a typical output voltage at 0.9 V. The system clock frequency can be 
up to 25 MHz.
Voltage scaling is selected through VOS[1:0] in PWR_VOSR. The EPOD (embedded power 
distribution) booster must be enabled and ready before increasing the system clock 
frequency above 55 MHz in range 1 and range 2.
The sequence to switch the voltage scaling from range L (lower power) to range P (higher 
performance) with L > P, is the following:
1. If target SYSCLK > 55 MHz:
a) Configure PLL1MBOOST[3:0] in RCC_ PLL1CFGR to generate a booster clock 
frequency between 4 and 16 MHz.
b) Switch on the PLL1 oscillator clock source.