RM0456 Rev 6
2723/3653
RM0456
Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)
2756
65.4.11 
SMBus specific features
         
Introduction
The system management bus (SMBus) is a two-wire interface through which various 
devices can communicate with each other and with the rest of the system. It is based on 
operation principles of the I²C-bus. The SMBus provides a control bus for system and power 
management related tasks.
The I2C peripheral is compatible with the SMBus specification (http://smbus.org).
The system management bus specification refers to three types of devices:
•
Target is a device that receives or responds to a command. 
•
Controller is a device that issues commands, generates clocks, and terminates the 
transfer. 
•
Host is a specialized controller that provides the main interface to the system CPU. A 
host must be a controller-target and must support the SMBus host notify protocol. Only 
one host is allowed in a system.
The I2C peripheral can be configured as a controller or a target device, and also as a host.
Bus protocols
There are eleven possible command protocols for any given device. The device can use any 
or all of them to communicate. These are: Quick Command, Send Byte, Receive Byte, Write 
Byte, Write Word, Read Byte, Read Word, Process Call, Block Read, Block Write, and Block 
Write-Block Read Process Call. The protocols must be implemented by the user software.
For more details on these protocols, refer to the SMBus specification (http://smbus.org).
Address resolution protocol (ARP)
SMBus target address conflicts can be resolved by dynamically assigning a new unique 
address to each target device. To provide a mechanism to isolate each device for the 
purpose of address assignment, each device must implement a unique 128-bit device 
identifier (UDID). In the I2C peripheral, it is implemented by software.
The I2C peripheral supports the Address resolution protocol (ARP). The SMBus device 
default address (0b1100 001) is enabled by setting the SMBDEN bit of the I2C_CR1 
register. The ARP commands must be implemented by the user software.
Arbitration is also performed in target mode for ARP support.
For more details on the SMBus address resolution protocol, refer to the SMBus specification 
(http://smbus.org).
Received command and data acknowledge control
An SMBus receiver must be able to NACK each received command or data. In order to 
allow the ACK control in target mode, the target byte control mode must be enabled, by 
setting the SBC bit of the I2C_CR1 register. Refer to Target byte control mode for more 
details.
STM32CubeMX implements an SMBus stack thanks to X-CUBE-SMBUS, a downloadable 
software pack that allows basic SMBus configuration per I2C instance.
