RM0456 Rev 6
2749/3653
RM0456
Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)
2756
Bits 23:17 ADDCODE[6:0]: Address match code (target mode) 
These bits are updated with the received address when an address match event occurs 
(ADDR = 1). In the case of a 10-bit address, ADDCODE provides the 10-bit header followed 
by the two MSBs of the address.
Bit 16 DIR: Transfer direction (target mode)
This flag is updated when an address match event occurs (ADDR = 1).
0: Write transfer, target enters receiver mode.
1: Read transfer, target enters transmitter mode.
Bit 15 BUSY: Bus busy
This flag indicates that a communication is in progress on the bus. It is set by hardware 
when a START condition is detected, and cleared by hardware when a STOP condition is 
detected, or when PE = 0.
Bit 14 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 13 ALERT: SMBus alert
This flag is set by hardware when SMBHEN = 1 (SMBus host configuration), ALERTEN = 1 
and an SMBALERT# event (falling edge) is detected on SMBA pin. It is cleared by software 
by setting the ALERTCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 12 TIMEOUT: Timeout or tLOW detection flag
This flag is set by hardware when a timeout or extended clock timeout occurred. It is cleared 
by software by setting the TIMEOUTCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 11 PECERR: PEC error in reception
This flag is set by hardware when the received PEC does not match with the PEC register 
content. A NACK is automatically sent after the wrong PEC reception. It is cleared by 
software by setting the PECCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 10 OVR: Overrun/underrun (target mode)
This flag is set by hardware in target mode with NOSTRETCH = 1, when an 
overrun/underrun error occurs. It is cleared by software by setting the OVRCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 9 ARLO: Arbitration lost
This flag is set by hardware in case of arbitration loss. It is cleared by software by setting the 
ARLOCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 8 BERR: Bus error
This flag is set by hardware when a misplaced START or STOP condition is detected 
whereas the peripheral is involved in the transfer. The flag is not set during the address 
phase in target mode. It is cleared by software by setting the BERRCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0. 
Bit 7 TCR: Transfer complete reload
This flag is set by hardware when RELOAD = 1 and NBYTES data have been transferred. It 
is cleared by software when NBYTES is written to a non-zero value.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
This flag is only for controller mode, or for target mode when the SBC bit is set.
