Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)
RM0456
2750/3653
RM0456 Rev 6
Bit 6 TC: Transfer complete (controller mode)
This flag is set by hardware when RELOAD = 0, AUTOEND = 0 and NBYTES data have 
been transferred. It is cleared by software when START bit or STOP bit is set.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 5 STOPF: STOP detection flag
This flag is set by hardware when a STOP condition is detected on the bus and the 
peripheral is involved in this transfer:
–
as a controller, provided that the STOP condition is generated by the peripheral.
–
as a target, provided that the peripheral has been addressed previously during this 
transfer.
It is cleared by software by setting the STOPCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0. 
Bit 4 NACKF: Not acknowledge received flag
This flag is set by hardware when a NACK is received after a byte transmission. It is cleared 
by software by setting the NACKCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 3 ADDR: Address matched (target mode)
This bit is set by hardware as soon as the received target address matched with one of the 
enabled target addresses. It is cleared by software by setting ADDRCF bit.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0. 
Bit 2 RXNE: Receive data register not empty (receivers)
This bit is set by hardware when the received data is copied into the I2C_RXDR register, and 
is ready to be read. It is cleared when I2C_RXDR is read.
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 1 TXIS: Transmit interrupt status (transmitters)
This bit is set by hardware when the I2C_TXDR register is empty and the data to be 
transmitted must be written in the I2C_TXDR register. It is cleared when the next data to be 
sent is written in the I2C_TXDR register.
This bit can be written to 1 by software only when NOSTRETCH = 1, to generate a TXIS 
event (interrupt if TXIE = 1 or DMA request if TXDMAEN = 1).
Note: This bit is cleared by hardware when PE = 0.
Bit 0 TXE: Transmit data register empty (transmitters)
This bit is set by hardware when the I2C_TXDR register is empty. It is cleared when the next 
data to be sent is written in the I2C_TXDR register. 
This bit can be written to 1 by software in order to flush the transmit data register I2C_TXDR.
Note: This bit is set by hardware when PE = 0.
