Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)
RM0456
2736/3653
RM0456 Rev 6
65.4.17 
Error conditions
The following errors are the conditions that can cause the communication to fail.
Bus error (BERR)
A bus error is detected when a START or a STOP condition is detected and is not located 
after a multiple of nine SCL clock pulses. START or STOP condition is detected when an 
SDA edge occurs while SCL is high.
The bus error flag is set only if the I2C peripheral is involved in the transfer as controller or 
addressed target (that is, not during the address phase in target mode).
In case of a misplaced START or RESTART detection in target mode, the I2C peripheral 
enters address recognition state like for a correct START condition.
When a bus error is detected, the BERR flag of the I2C_ISR register is set, and an interrupt 
is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register is set.
Arbitration loss (ARLO)
An arbitration loss is detected when a high level is sent on the SDA line, but a low level is 
sampled on the SCL rising edge.
In controller mode, arbitration loss is detected during the address phase, data phase and 
data acknowledge phase. In this case, the SDA and SCL lines are released, the START 
control bit is cleared by hardware and the controller switches automatically to target mode. 
In target mode, arbitration loss is detected during data phase and data acknowledge phase. 
In this case, the transfer is stopped and the SCL and SDA lines are released.
When an arbitration loss is detected, the ARLO flag of the I2C_ISR register is set and an 
interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register is set.
Overrun/underrun error (OVR)
An overrun or underrun error is detected in target mode when NOSTRETCH = 1 and:
•
In reception when a new byte is received and the RXDR register has not been read yet. 
The new received byte is lost, and a NACK is automatically sent as a response to the 
new byte.
•
In transmission:
–
When STOPF = 1 and the first data byte must be sent. The content of the 
I2C_TXDR register is sent if TXE = 0, 0xFF if not.
–
When a new byte must be sent and the I2C_TXDR register has not been written 
yet, 0xFF is sent.
When an overrun or underrun error is detected, the OVR flag of the I2C_ISR register is set 
and an interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register is set.
Packet error checking error (PECERR)
         
A PEC error is detected when the received PEC byte does not match the I2C_PECR 
register content. A NACK is automatically sent after the wrong PEC reception.
When a PEC error is detected, the PECERR flag of the I2C_ISR register is set and an 
interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register is set.
