Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)
RM0456
2744/3653
RM0456 Rev 6
Bit 15 NACK: NACK generation (target mode)
The bit is set by software, cleared by hardware when the NACK is sent, or when a STOP 
condition or an Address matched is received, or when PE = 0.
0: an ACK is sent after current received byte.
1: a NACK is sent after current received byte.
Note: Writing 0 to this bit has no effect.
This bit is used only in target mode: in controller receiver mode, NACK is automatically 
generated after last byte preceding STOP or RESTART condition, whatever the NACK 
bit value.
When an overrun occurs in target receiver NOSTRETCH mode, a NACK is 
automatically generated, whatever the NACK bit value.
When hardware PEC checking is enabled (PECBYTE = 1), the PEC acknowledge value 
does not depend on the NACK value.
Bit 14 STOP: STOP condition generation
This bit only pertains to controller mode. It is set by software and cleared by hardware when 
a STOP condition is detected or when PE = 0.
0: No STOP generation
1: STOP generation after current byte transfer
Note: Writing 0 to this bit has no effect.
Bit 13 START: START condition generation
This bit is set by software. It is cleared by hardware after the START condition followed by 
the address sequence is sent, by an arbitration loss, by an address matched in target mode, 
by a timeout error detection, or when PE = 0.
0: No START generation
1: RESTART/START generation:
If the I2C is already in controller mode with AUTOEND = 0, setting this bit generates a 
repeated START condition when RELOAD = 0, after the end of the NBYTES transfer.
Otherwise, setting this bit generates a START condition once the bus is free.
Note: Writing 0 to this bit has no effect.
The START bit can be set even if the bus is BUSY or I2C is in target mode.
This bit has no effect when RELOAD is set. 
Bit 12 HEAD10R: 10-bit address header only read direction (controller receiver mode)
0: The controller sends the complete 10-bit target address read sequence: START + 2 bytes 
10-bit address in write direction + RESTART + first seven bits of the 10-bit address in read 
direction.
1: The controller sends only the first seven bits of the 10-bit address, followed by read 
direction.
Note: Changing this bit when the START bit is set is not allowed.
Bit 11 ADD10: 10-bit addressing mode (controller mode)
0: The controller operates in 7-bit addressing mode
1: The controller operates in 10-bit addressing mode
Note: Changing this bit when the START bit is set is not allowed.
Bit 10 RD_WRN: Transfer direction (controller mode)
0: Controller requests a write transfer
1: Controller requests a read transfer
Note: Changing this bit when the START bit is set is not allowed.
