RM0456 Rev 6
2735/3653
RM0456
Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)
2756
If the DMA requests are enabled, the data are DMA-transferred to or from the SRAM, while 
the device remains in Stop mode.
Target mode
In target mode, the autonomous mode is enabled in Stop mode if WUPEN = 1 in the 
I2C_CR1. This mode is supported only when NOSTRETCH = 0.
The kernel clock is requested by the peripheral on START detection during all the transfer 
until the STOP condition occurs, when the target is addressed. If the target is not 
addressed, the kernel clock request is released after the address phase.
To optimize the functionality in target mode by using only DMA transfers, it is possible to set 
the ADDRACLR and STOPFACLR bits in the I2C_CR1 in order to avoid to serve the 
Address match (ADDR) and STOP detection (STOPF) events. 
Note:
If the I2C clock is the system clock, or if WUPEN = 0, the internal oscillator is not switched 
on after a START is received in target mode.
Controller mode
In controller mode, a transfer can be automatically launched when an asynchronous trigger 
is detected in Run, Sleep or Stop mode. The trigger, selected by TRIGSEL in the 
I2C_AUTOCR register, generates a kernel clock request to allow the transfer, and launches 
a START condition and the I2C transfer as defined in the I2C_CR2 register. The kernel clock 
is requested until the STOP condition occurs.
To avoid waking up the CPU too often, it is possible to replace some interrupts by DMA 
requests, to make some control register write actions. In controller mode, transfer complete 
(TC) and transfer complete reload (TCR) events can generate a DMA request when the 
corresponding TCDMAEN or TCRDMAEN bits of the I2C_AUTOCR register are set. 
Consequently, the I2C_CR2 register can be written thanks to a DMA transfer, to program a 
new transfer (in TC event) or to reload the number of bytes (in TCR event).
In case a trigger is enabled, but the application needs to take the control back to start a 
different transfer, the following steps are required before writing in the I2C_CR2 register to 
launch the new transfer:
1.
Wait for BUSY = 0 in the I2C_ISR register
2. 
Clear the TRIGEN bit of the I2C_AUTOCR register
3. 
Wait for longer than tBUF (bus free time between a STOP and a START condition)
4. 
Wait for BUSY = 0 in the I2C_ISR register
Caution:
When the device is in Stop mode, the I2C peripheral receives its kernel clock only when it is 
implicated in the transfer. Consequently, features such as timeouts and bus idle detection 
are not reliable in Stop mode.
Caution:
The digital filter is not compatible with the functionality in Stop mode. Before entering Stop 
mode with the WUPEN bit set, deactivate the digital filter, by writing zero to the DNF[3:0] 
bitfield.
Caution:
Clock stretching must be enabled (NOSTRETCH = 0) to ensure proper operation of the 
wake-up from Stop mode feature.
Caution:
If wake-up from Stop mode is disabled (WUPEN = 0), the I2C peripheral must be disabled 
before entering Stop mode (PE = 0).
