Inter-integrated circuit interface (I2C)
RM0456
2724/3653
RM0456 Rev 6
Host notify protocol
To enable the host notify protocol, set the SMBHEN bit of the I2C_CR1 register. The I2C 
peripheral then acknowledges the SMBus host address (0b0001 000).
When this protocol is used, the device acts as a controller and the host as a target.
SMBus alert
The I2C peripheral supports the SMBALERT# optional signal through the SMBA pin. With 
the SMBALERT# signal, an SMBus target device can signal to the SMBus host that it wants 
to talk. The host processes the interrupt and simultaneously accesses all SMBALERT# 
devices through the alert response address (0b0001 100). Only the device/devices which 
pulled SMBALERT# low acknowledges/acknowledge the alert response address.
When the I2C peripheral is configured as an SMBus target device (SMBHEN = 0), the 
SMBA pin is pulled low by setting the ALERTEN bit of the I2C_CR1 register. The alert 
response address is enabled at the same time.
When the I2C peripheral is configured as an SMBus host (SMBHEN = 1), the ALERT flag of 
the I2C_ISR register is set when a falling edge is detected on the SMBA pin and ALERTEN 
= 1. An interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit of the I2C_CR1 register is set. When 
ALERTEN = 0, the alert line is considered high even if the external SMBA pin is low.
Note:
If the SMBus alert pin is not required, keep the ALERTEN bit cleared. The SMBA pin can 
then be used as a standard GPIO.
Packet error checking 
A packet error checking mechanism introduced in the SMBus specification improves 
reliability and communication robustness. The packet error checking is implemented by 
appending a packet error code (PEC) at the end of each message transfer. The PEC is 
calculated by using the C(x) = x8 + x2 + x + 1 CRC-8 polynomial on all the message bytes 
(including addresses and read/write bits).
The I2C peripheral embeds a hardware PEC calculator and allows a not acknowledge to be 
sent automatically when the received byte does not match the hardware calculated PEC. 
Timeouts
To comply with the SMBus timeout specifications, the I2C peripheral embeds hardware 
timers.
         
Table 665. SMBus timeout specifications
Symbol
Parameter
Limits
Unit
Min
Max
tTIMEOUT
Detect clock low timeout
25
35
ms
tLOW:SEXT
(1)
1.
tLOW:SEXT is the cumulative time a given target device is allowed to extend the clock cycles in one message 
from the initial START to the STOP. It is possible that another target device or the controller also extends 
the clock causing the combined clock low extend time to be greater than tLOW:SEXT. The value provided 
applies to a single target device connected to a full-target controller.
Cumulative clock low extend time (target device)
-
25
tLOW:MEXT
(2)
Cumulative clock low extend time (controller 
device)
-
10
