Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12) RM0456
1346/3653 RM0456 Rev 6
Bit 4 ADSTP: ADC stop of regular conversion command
This bit is set by software to stop and discard an ongoing regular conversion (ADSTP Command).
It is cleared by hardware when the conversion is effectively discarded and the ADC regular 
sequence and triggers can be re-configured. The ADC is then ready to accept a new start of regular 
conversions (ADSTART command).
0: No ADC stop regular conversion command ongoing
1: Write 1 to stop regular conversions ongoing. Read 1 means that an ADSTP command is in 
progress.
Note: The software is allowed to set ADSTP only when ADSTART = 1 and ADDIS = 0 (ADC is 
enabled and eventually converting a regular conversion and there is no pending request to 
disable the ADC).
In auto-injection mode (JAUTO = 1), setting ADSTP bit aborts both regular and injected 
conversions (do not use JADSTP).
Bit 3 JADSTART: ADC start of injected conversion
This bit is set by software to start ADC conversion of injected channels. Depending on the 
configuration bits JEXTEN[1:0], a conversion starts immediately (software trigger configuration) or 
once an injected hardware trigger event occurs (hardware trigger configuration).
It is cleared by hardware:
– in single conversion mode when software trigger is selected (JEXTSEL = 0x0): at the 
assertion of the end of injected conversion sequence (JEOS) flag.
– in all cases: after the execution of the JADSTP  command, at the same time as JADSTP is 
cleared by hardware.
0: No ADC injected conversion is ongoing.
1: Write 1 to start injected conversions. Read 1 means that the ADC is operating and eventually 
converting an injected channel.
Note: The software is allowed to set JADSTART only when ADEN = 1 and ADDIS = 0 (ADC is 
enabled and there is no pending request to disable the ADC).
In auto-injection mode (JAUTO = 1), regular and auto-injected conversions are started by 
setting bit ADSTART (JADSTART must be kept cleared)
Bit 2 ADSTART: ADC start of regular conversion
This bit is set by software to start ADC conversion of regular channels. Depending on the 
configuration bits EXTEN[1:0], a conversion starts immediately (software trigger configuration) or 
once a regular hardware trigger event occurs (hardware trigger configuration).
It is cleared by hardware:
– In single conversion mode (CONT = 0, DISCEN = 0) when software trigger is selected 
(EXTEN[1:0] = 0x0): at the assertion of the end of regular conversion sequence (EOS) flag.
– In discontinuous conversion mode (CONT = 0, DISCEN = 1), when the software trigger is 
selected (EXTEN[1:0] = 0x0): at the end of conversion (EOC) flag.
– in all other cases: after the execution of the ADSTP command, at the same time that 
ADSTP is cleared by hardware.
0: No ADC regular conversion is ongoing.
1: Write 1 to start regular conversions. Read 1 means that the ADC is operating and eventually 
converting a regular channel.
Note: The software is allowed to set ADSTART only when ADEN = 1 and ADDIS = 0 (ADC is enabled 
and there is no pending request to disable the ADC)
In auto-injection mode (JAUTO = 1), regular and auto-injected conversions are started by 
setting bit ADSTART (JADSTART must be kept cleared)