Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12) RM0456
1276/3653 RM0456 Rev 6
33.4.5 Slave AHB interface
The ADC implements an AHB slave port for control/status register and data access. The 
features of the AHB interface are listed below:
• Word (32-bit) accesses
• Single cycle response
• Response to all read/write accesses to the registers with zero wait states.
The AHB slave interface does not support split/retry requests and never generates AHB 
errors.
33.4.6 ADC Deep-power-down mode (D EEPPWD) and ADC voltage regulator
(ADVREGEN)
By default, the ADC is in Deep-power-down mode where its supply voltage is internally 
switched off to reduce the leakage currents (the reset state of bit DEEPPWD is 1 in the 
ADC_CR register).
To start ADC operations, follow the sequence below: 
1. First exit Deep-power-down mode by clearing the DEEPPWD bit.
2. Then, enable the ADC internal voltage regul ator by setting the ADVREGEN bit in the 
ADC_CR register. The software must wait for the startup time of the ADC voltage 
regulator (TADCVREG_STUP) before launching a calibration or enabling the ADC. This 
can be done by software by polling the LDORDY bit of the ADC_ISR register.
After ADC operations are complete, the ADC can be disabled (ADEN = 0). It is possible to 
save power by also disabling the ADC voltage regulator. This is done by clearing the 
ADVREGEN bit. Power consumption can be further reduced by reducing the leakage 
currents. In addition, it is possible to enter again in ADC Deep-power-down mode by setting 
DEEPPWD bit in ADC_CR register. This is particularly interesting before entering Stop 
mode.
Note: Setting DEEPPWD automatically disables the ADC voltage regulator and the ADVREGEN 
bit is automatically cleared.
When the internal voltage regulator is disabled (ADVREGEN = 0), the internal analog 
calibration factor is kept.
In ADC Deep-power-down mode (DEEPPWD = 1), the internal analog calibration is lost and 
it is necessary either to relaunch a calibration or apply again the calibration factor, which 
was previously saved (refer to Section 33.4.8: Calibration (ADCAL, ADCALLIN, 
ADC_CALFACT)).
33.4.7 Single-ended and diff erential input channels
ADC channels can be configured either as single-ended input or as differential input. This is 
done by writing DIFSEL[19:0] bits in the ADC_DIFSEL register. This configuration must be 
performed while the ADC is disabled (ADEN = 0). 
In single-ended input mode, the analog voltage to be converted for channel “i” is the 
difference between the external voltage VINP[i] (positive input) and VREF- (negative input).
In differential input mode, the analog voltage to be converted for channel “i” is the difference 
between the external voltage VINP[i] (positive input) and VINN[i] (negative input).