RM0456 Rev 6 1343/3653
RM0456 Analog-to-digital converter (ADC12)
1377
Bit 8 AWD2IE: Analog watchdog 2 interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable the analog watchdog 2 interrupt.
0: Analog watchdog 2 interrupt disabled
1: Analog watchdog 2 interrupt enabled
Note: Software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 and JADSTART = 0 (which 
ensures that no conversion is ongoing).
Bit 7 AWD1IE: Analog watchdog 1 interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable the analog watchdog 1 interrupt. 
0: Analog watchdog 1 interrupt disabled
1: Analog watchdog 1 interrupt enabled
Note: Software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 and JADSTART = 0 (which 
ensures that no conversion is ongoing).
Bit 6 JEOSIE: End of injected sequence of conversions interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable the end of injected sequence of conversions 
interrupt.
0: JEOS interrupt disabled
1: JEOS interrupt enabled. An interrupt is generated when the JEOS bit is set.
Note: Software is allowed to write this bit only when JADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no injected 
conversion is ongoing).
Bit 5 JEOCIE: End of injected conversion interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable the end of an injected conversion interrupt.
0: JEOC interrupt disabled.
1: JEOC interrupt enabled. An interrupt is generated when the JEOC bit is set.
Note: Software is allowed to write this bit only when JADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no regular 
conversion is ongoing).
Bit 4 OVRIE: Overrun interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable the Overrun interrupt of a regular 
conversion.
0: Overrun interrupt disabled
1: Overrun interrupt enabled. An interrupt is generated when the OVR bit is set.
Note: Software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no regular 
conversion is ongoing).
Bit 3 EOSIE: End of regular sequence of conversions interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable the end of regular sequence of conversions 
interrupt.
0: EOS interrupt disabled
1: EOS interrupt enabled. An interrupt is generated when the EOS bit is set.
Note: Software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no regular 
conversion is ongoing).
Bit 2 EOCIE: End of regular conversion interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable the end of a regular conversion interrupt.
0: EOC interrupt disabled.
1: EOC interrupt enabled. An interrupt is generated when the EOC bit is set.
Note: Software is allowed to write this bit only when ADSTART = 0 (which ensures that no regular 
conversion is ongoing).