RM0456 Rev 6
2895/3653
RM0456
Low-power universal asynchronous receiver transmitter (LPUART)
2902
Bit 17 CMF: Character match flag
This bit is set by hardware, when a the character defined by ADD[7:0] is received. It is 
cleared by software, writing 1 to the CMCF in the LPUART_ICR register. 
An interrupt is generated if CMIE = 1in the LPUART_CR1 register. 
0: No Character match detected
1: Character match detected
Bit 16 BUSY: Busy flag
This bit is set and reset by hardware. It is active when a communication is ongoing on the 
RX line (successful start bit detected). It is reset at the end of the reception (successful or 
not). 
0: LPUART is idle (no reception)
1: Reception ongoing
Bits 15:11 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 10 CTS: CTS flag
This bit is set/reset by hardware. It is an inverted copy of the status of the CTS input pin. 
0: CTS line set
1: CTS line reset
Note: If the hardware flow control feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and kept at 
reset value.
Bit 9 CTSIF: CTS interrupt flag
This bit is set by hardware when the CTS input toggles, if the CTSE bit is set. It is cleared by 
software, by writing 1 to the CTSCF bit in the LPUART_ICR register. 
An interrupt is generated if CTSIE = 1 in the LPUART_CR3 register.
0: No change occurred on the CTS status line
1: A change occurred on the CTS status line
Note: If the hardware flow control feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and kept at 
reset value.
Bit 8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 7 TXE: Transmit data register empty
TXE is set by hardware when the content of the LPUART_TDR register has been transferred 
into the shift register. It is cleared by a write to the LPUART_TDR register. 
An interrupt is generated if the TXEIE bit = 1 in the LPUART_CR1 register. 
0: Data register full
1: Data register empty
Note: This bit is used during single buffer transmission.
Bit 6 TC: Transmission complete
This bit indicates that the last data written in the LPUART_TDR has been transmitted out of 
the shift register. The TC flag is set when the transmission of a frame containing data has 
completed and when TXE is set.
An interrupt is generated if TCIE = 1 in the LPUART_CR1 register.
TC bit is cleared by software by writing 1 to the TCCF in the LPUART_ICR register or by 
writing to the LPUART_TDR register.
