RM0456 Rev 6
2887/3653
RM0456
Low-power universal asynchronous receiver transmitter (LPUART)
2902
         
Bits 31:23 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 22:16 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 15 DEP: Driver enable polarity selection
0: DE signal is active high. 
1: DE signal is active low.
This bit can only be written when the LPUART is disabled (UE = 0).
Bit 14 DEM: Driver enable mode 
This bit enables the user to activate the external transceiver control, through the DE signal. 
0: DE function is disabled. 
1: DE function is enabled. The DE signal is output on the RTS pin.
This bit can only be written when the LPUART is disabled (UE = 0).
Bit 13 DDRE: DMA Disable on reception Error
0: DMA is not disabled in case of reception error. The corresponding error flag is set but 
RXNE is kept 0 preventing from overrun. As a consequence, the DMA request is not 
asserted, so the erroneous data is not transferred (no DMA request), but next correct 
received data is transferred.
1: DMA is disabled following a reception error. The corresponding error flag is set, as well as 
RXNE. The DMA request is masked until the error flag is cleared. This means that the 
software must first disable the DMA request (DMAR = 0) or clear RXNE before clearing the 
error flag.
This bit can only be written when the LPUART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: The reception errors are: parity error, framing error or noise error.
Bit 12 OVRDIS: Overrun Disable
This bit is used to disable the receive overrun detection. 
0: Overrun Error Flag, ORE is set when received data is not read before receiving new data. 
1: Overrun functionality is disabled. If new data is received while the RXNE flag is still set
the ORE flag is not set and the new received data overwrites the previous content of the 
LPUART_RDR register.
This bit can only be written when the LPUART is disabled (UE = 0).
Note: This control bit enables checking the communication flow w/o reading the data.
Bit 11 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 10 CTSIE: CTS interrupt enable
0: Interrupt is inhibited
1: An interrupt is generated whenever CTSIF = 1 in the LPUART_ISR register
Bit 9 CTSE: CTS enable
0: CTS hardware flow control disabled
1: CTS mode enabled, data is only transmitted when the CTS input is deasserted (tied to 0). 
If the CTS input is asserted while data is being transmitted, then the transmission completes 
before stopping. If data is written into the data register while CTS is asserted, the 
transmission is postponed until CTS is deasserted.
This bit can only be written when the LPUART is disabled (UE = 0)
Bit 8 RTSE: RTS enable
0: RTS hardware flow control disabled
1: RTS output enabled, data is only requested when there is space in the receive buffer. The 
transmission of data is expected to cease after the current character has been transmitted. 
The RTS output is deasserted (pulled to 0) when data can be received.
This bit can only be written when the LPUART is disabled (UE = 0).
