RM0456 Rev 6
2891/3653
RM0456
Low-power universal asynchronous receiver transmitter (LPUART)
2902
Bit 20 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 19 RWU: Receiver wake-up from mute mode
This bit indicates if the LPUART is in mute mode. It is cleared/set by hardware when a wake-
up/mute sequence is recognized. The mute mode control sequence (address or IDLE) is 
selected by the WAKE bit in the LPUART_CR1 register.
When wake-up on IDLE mode is selected, this bit can only be set by software, writing 1 to 
the MMRQ bit in the LPUART_RQR register. 
0: Receiver in active mode
1: Receiver in mute mode
Note: If the LPUART does not support the wake-up from Stop feature, this bit is reserved and 
kept at reset value.
Bit 18 SBKF: Send break flag
This bit indicates that a send break character was requested. It is set by software, by writing 
1 to the SBKRQ bit in the LPUART_CR3 register. It is automatically reset by hardware 
during the stop bit of break transmission.
0: No break character transmitted
1: Break character transmitted
Bit 17 CMF: Character match flag
This bit is set by hardware, when a the character defined by ADD[7:0] is received. It is 
cleared by software, writing 1 to the CMCF in the LPUART_ICR register. 
An interrupt is generated if CMIE = 1in the LPUART_CR1 register. 
0: No Character match detected
1: Character match detected
Bit 16 BUSY: Busy flag
This bit is set and reset by hardware. It is active when a communication is ongoing on the 
RX line (successful start bit detected). It is reset at the end of the reception (successful or 
not). 
0: LPUART is idle (no reception)
1: reception ongoing
Bits 15:11 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 10 CTS: CTS flag
This bit is set/reset by hardware. It is an inverted copy of the status of the CTS input pin. 
0: CTS line set
1: CTS line reset
Note: If the hardware flow control feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and kept at 
reset value.
Bit 9 CTSIF: CTS interrupt flag
This bit is set by hardware when the CTS input toggles, if the CTSE bit is set. It is cleared by 
software, by writing 1 to the CTSCF bit in the LPUART_ICR register. 
An interrupt is generated if CTSIE = 1 in the LPUART_CR3 register.
0: No change occurred on the CTS status line
1: A change occurred on the CTS status line
Note: If the hardware flow control feature is not supported, this bit is reserved and kept at 
reset value.
Bit 8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
