RM0456 Rev 6
2881/3653
RM0456
Low-power universal asynchronous receiver transmitter (LPUART)
2902
Bit 10 PCE: Parity control enable
This bit selects the hardware parity control (generation and detection). When the parity 
control is enabled, the computed parity is inserted at the MSB position (9th bit if M = 1; 8th bit 
if M = 0) and parity is checked on the received data. This bit is set and cleared by software. 
Once it is set, PCE is active after the current byte (in reception and in transmission).
0: Parity control disabled
1: Parity control enabled
This bitfield can only be written when the LPUART is disabled (UE = 0).
Bit 9 PS: Parity selection
This bit selects the odd or even parity when the parity generation/detection is enabled (PCE 
bit set). It is set and cleared by software. The parity is selected after the current byte.
0: Even parity
1: Odd parity
This bitfield can only be written when the LPUART is disabled (UE = 0).
Bit 8 PEIE: PE interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt is inhibited
1: An LPUART interrupt is generated whenever PE = 1 in the LPUART_ISR register
Bit 7 TXEIE: Transmit data register empty
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt is inhibited
1: A LPUART interrupt is generated whenever TXE = 1 in the LPUART_ISR register
Bit 6 TCIE: Transmission complete interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt is inhibited
1: An LPUART interrupt is generated whenever TC = 1 in the LPUART_ISR register
Bit 5 RXNEIE: Receive data register not empty
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt is inhibited
1: A LPUART interrupt is generated whenever ORE = 1 or RXNE = 1 in the LPUART_ISR 
register
Bit 4 IDLEIE: IDLE interrupt enable
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: Interrupt is inhibited
1: An LPUART interrupt is generated whenever IDLE = 1 in the LPUART_ISR register
Bit 3 TE: Transmitter enable
This bit enables the transmitter. When the autonomous mode is disabled, TE bit is set and 
cleared by software. When the autonomous mode is enabled, TE bit becomes a status bit, 
which is set and cleared by hardware. 
0: Transmitter is disabled
1: Transmitter is enabled
Note: When the LPUART acts as a transmitted, a low pulse on the TE bit (0 followed by 1) 
sends a preamble (idle line) after the current word, except in smartcard mode. In order 
to generate an idle character, the TE must not be immediately written to 1. To ensure 
the required duration, the software can poll the TEACK bit in the LPUART_ISR register.
In smartcard mode, when TE is set, there is a 1 bit-time delay before the transmission 
starts.
